== License
Personae is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

Personae is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with Personae. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


== Welcome

Persona is a Ruby on Rails web application designed to hold character sheets
for the New World of Darkness role playing games by White Wolf. This program is
designed to contain entire chronicles worth of characters and really shines
when used for non-player-character sheets as well as the players' characters.

== Terms

Since this software has been designed to work with all the game lines in the New
World of Darkness, some generic terminology has been used to describe similar
elements across game lines.

Splat => Mage, Vampire, Werewolf, etc
Nature => Moros (Mage), Gangrel (Vampire), Cahalith (Werewolf), etc
Subnature => Changelings' Kith (and nothing else)
Clique => Cabal (Mage), Cotorie (Vampire), Pack (Werewolf), etc
Ideology => Silver Ladder (Mage), Lancae Sanctum (Vampire), Storm Lords
(Werewolf), etc


== Setup

Personae uses an administrator-style account named Storyteller. This
account can see all the Characters, Cliques and Ideologies in your game,
regardless of their display settings. Be careful! The default password for
this account is worldofdarkness -- please change this once your database is
set up! Once this account is active it can mark any others as admins as
well. These accounts will have the same permissions as Storyteller.

To run Personae, you must have the following software installed: Ruby, 
Ruby on Rails, and sqlite3. It is highly suggested to use Apache httpd and
mod_rails as well.

If you don't have this software installed, you can download it from
http://ruby-lang.org and http://sqlite.org . Once you have
Ruby and Sqlite3 installed, use Ruby Gems to install bundler:
*nix:
  gem install bundler
Windows: Start -> Programs -> Ruby -> Ruby Gems -> RubyGems Package Manager.
  gem install bundler

With bundler installed, install the rest of the required gems by changing
into Personae's install directory (from a shell or cmd prompt) and run
  bundle install.

This will install the proper versions of all the gems you'll need.

Once you have Personae downloaded and placed where you want it, open a command
prompt (Terminal on Mac, xterm on Linux, cmd on Windows). Run the following to
configure your database:
  cd <personae location>; RAILS_ENV=production rake db:setup

If you prefer, you can use the built-in web server with Ruby on Rails. This is
not recommended, though. A better solution is to download Apache httpd and
mod_rails from http://httpd.apache.org and http://mod_rails.com on a
POSIX-compliant operating system (that is, just about anything but Windows). On a Windows environment, Apache httpd and mongrel is your best bet.

Windows: Start -> Programs -> Ruby -> Ruby Gems -> RubyGems Package Manager.
  gem install mongrel


== POSIX (Linux, Mac, Solaris, etc) Apache setup

If you're using Mac, httpd is already installed for you. Otherwise, use your
distribution's package manager to install httpd.

Open a terminal and install mod_rails:
  gem install passenger

Run the mod_rails installer:
  passenger-install-apache2-module

The mod_rails installer should provide you with several lines to copy/paste into
your Apache httpd.conf file. Do so.

Now, when you start Apache httpd, it will automatically begin serving up Personae.


== Windows Apache setup

As above, download Apache httpd from http://httpd.apache.org and run the
installer. Use the RubyGem package manager to install mongrel:
  gem install mongrel

With mongrel installed, add the following lines to Apache's httpd.conf file:
LoadModule proxy_module modules/mod_proxy.so
LoadModule proxy_http_module modules/mod_proxy_http.so
  <VirtualHost localhost:80>
    ServerName www.myapp.comm
    DocumentRoot "C:/web/myapp/public"
    ProxyPass / http://www.myapp.com:3000/
    ProxyPassReverse / http://www.myapp.com:3000/
    ProxyPreserveHost On
  </VirtualHost>

Use the Apache tools to start httpd.

Open a command prompt (Start -> Run -> cmd) and type:
  cd <personae install path>; mongrel_rails start -d


== Accessing your site

Without further modification to httpd.conf, Personae will be running on port 80
of the computer it is installed on. You will need to allow access through
whatever firewall you might be running to this port and will likely need to
enable port forwarding on your router. http://portforward.com can help you with
this.

It is unlikely that your computer will have a fully-qualified domain name
(eg. google.com, white-wolf.com, etc). You can either register a domain name or
use a service such as no-ip (http://no-ip.org) to give you one.


== A word of caution

Running a web server presents a potential security vulnerability, which can be
mitigated by frequently updating Apache and Ruby on Rails. If you're not OK with
that, then your best bet is to not use Personae.
